# Master's Thesis Cognitive Science, Summer 2024 

Liv Tollånes (201905665)

## Table of Contents

1. [Project Description](#1-project-description)
2. [Repository Structure](#2-repository-structure)
3. [Data](#3-data)
4. [Contact Information](#4-contact-information)

## 1. Project Description
This thesis explores the application of the SES embedding method, an approach developed to infer socioeconomic status (SES) from social network data, in a French context. The SES embedding method was developed by researchers at the London School of Economics and Political Science (He & Tsvetkova, 2023) and initially tested on a US Twitter network. The method aims to infer users' SES based on the commercial and entertainment accounts they follow. In this thesis, I pose the following three research questions: 
1) Which dimension within the reduced dimensionality space most accurately captures SES?
2) What combination of markers proves most effective for estimating users’ SES, and what does this reveal about socioeconomic disparities between France and the US?
3) Can the SES embedding method reliably infer the SES of French Twitter users?

The current approach challenges assumptions about the automatic capture of SES by the first dimension, and also explores whether the French context requires different SES marker selections than those effective in the US. Marker and user estimates in the first three CA dimensions are assessed for nine distinct models. Each model represents a different subset of the French social graph, each made up by different SES marker compositions and their followers. The current study also expands on the original implementation by introducing a more guided, effortful approach to obtaining self reported job titles, which are the basis of obtaining the main validation metric of this study, namely users’ income. 

## 2. Repository Structure
```
├── Graph preparation
│   └── Wrangling2.ipynb
├── Utility files
│   ├── ca_pipeline.py
│   ├── model_comparison.py
│   └── utils2.py
├── Validation
│   ├── CA_all_models.ipynb
│   ├── Diminspection.ipynb
│   ├── Income_val.ipynb
│   └── Income_val_prep.ipynb
├── poetry.lock
├── pyproject.toml
└── requirements_backup.txt
```

### Folder structure

- **Graph preparation**: Contains a notebook for preparing data for the rest of the analysis.
- **Utility files**: Modules that support various parts of the project.
- **Validation**: Contains notebooks for performing the CA analysis, and all code for validating the results.
  
### File Descriptions

- **Graph preparation**
  - **Wrangling2.ipynb**: Notebook for inituial data cleaning, filtering the data, obtaining French users only, and creating an informative edgelist to use in further analyses. 

- **Utility files**
  - **ca_pipeline.py**: Pipeline script for running the Correspondence Analysis. Includes a class with methods to create a bipartite graph, various grapgh checks, and perform Correspondence Analysis (CA) on the french edgelist 
  - **model_comparison.py**: Contains a class to perform a WLS regression analysis and produce model comparison metrics.
  - **utils2.py**: Contains a collection of functions used throughout the project for various purposes.

- **Validation**
  - **CA_all_models.ipynb**: Notebook for fitting the CA pipeline and obtain estimate files for all nine models. Includes graph checks. 
  - **Diminspection.ipynb**: Various outcome inspection of the CA estimates. 
  - **Income_val.ipynb**: Preparation of the validation data. Includes the N-gram frequency analysis of bios. Final file is the user data with bios, job titles, and associated income. 
  - **Income_val_prep.ipynb**: 

- **poetry.lock**: Dependency lock file generated by Poetry.
- **pyproject.toml**: Configuration file for the Poetry package manager, specifying dependencies and project metadata.
- **requirements_backup.txt**: A backup file for an old virtual environment.



## 3. Data

## 4. Contact Information
